Please read the information below as it is important.

---


> [!NOTE] Version v1.5.0 Update
> As of version `1.5.0`, a new way to add integrated gists was introduced. You may now use either the `single-line` method, or the new `property method`


## Available Methods
Please read carefully below, many aspects of Gistr have changed through-out its development. Listed below, are two ways that you can integrate gists into your Obsidian notes.

- [[#Single-Line Method]]
- [[#Property Method]]


### Single-Line Method
This method allows you to integrate a gist by using a single line in a codeblock.

````
https://gist.github.com/Aetherinox/cbb70244bdd1aeca236a7f4a19cb1aa1&dark
````

The above example will display a gist, but also force the gist to display with the `dark` theme.
The issue with this method is that it has become outdated; and you are limited to the properties you can use. See the [[#Property Method]] description below for the properties you can use.

The single-line method only allows you to specify a `theme` and a targeted `file` for gist urls which include multiple files within the gist.


### Property Method
As of `v1.5.0`, a new way of creating integrated gists was released. To add a new gist using the property method, you will create a codeblock with the trigger `gistr` was you would before, however, each property will be defined to the left, with a colon `:`, and then the value name.


````
```gistr
url:         https://gist.github.com/Aetherinox/5143c674e9adea5b256f5f58fe54ffbc
background:  https://i.imgur.com/95Tajqd.png
theme:       light
color:       FFF
file:        file2
```
````

Properties like `background`, `color`, and `file` are not available with the [[#Single-Line Method]].

