With the introduction of Mermaid graphs within Github, GIstr now officially supports this as well, but it comes with a twist.

Github requires a few scripts in order for mermaid graphs to show properly, which is not supported by the conventional means of integrating a gist into an Obsidian note.

To correct this, we must fetch the `raw` gist itself.

> [!WARNING] Use of `raw` property
> If you want to display gists with Mermaid graphs, you **MUST** use the `raw` property; otherwise you will see a blank page.
> 
> This `raw` property also works for normal gists; so if you'd like to have a controllable website for your gists, simply add the gist url.


In order to integrate gists which contain mermaid graphs, we must use the parameter `raw` in the Gistr codeblock:

````
```gistr
url:    https://gist.github.com/Aetherinox/f7525990fba2cba6a3ee7b61ac626c21
raw:    true
zoom:   0.8
height: 500
```
````

```gistr
url:    https://gist.github.com/Aetherinox/f7525990fba2cba6a3ee7b61ac626c21
raw:    true
zoom:   0.8
height: 500
```


The `raw` parameter will display the mermaid graph in a full version browser.


## Github Mobile vs Desktop Layout
Github showing you the mobile website vs the desktop layout is dependent on the width of your Obsidian vault pages. Using the default obsidian theme; you will notice your pages being displayed in the Github mobile layout.

If you wish to have the desktop layout; you must change your Obsidian theme's settings to make your page width wider than the default. Once you change the width, refresh your note page, and the layout should switch over to the Github desktop layout.

A few themes were tested, with listed instructions below:
- **Blue Topaz Theme**: Install **Style Settings** plugin, set `line width` from 45 -> 50+
- **Minimal Theme**: Install **Minimal Theme Settings** plugin, set `line width` from 45 -> 50+


## Signing into Github
Any page you display with the use of the `raw` parameter will allow you to also sign into Github using your account; which gives you the ability to manage your Github account, edit existing mermaid graphs, etc. Just as you would if you were viewing the gist using a desktop or mobile device.



---


## Additional Parameters
Since the `raw` parameter displays a page similar to a website; we've added additional settings to make these windows appear better.


| Parameter | Description |
| ---- | ---- |
| `zoom` | Allows you to view the page zoomed in or out.<br>50% - `0.5`<br>100% - `1`<br>200% - `2` |
| `height` | Specify a custom height for each window |


````
```gistr
url:      https://gist.github.com/Aetherinox/8e4707e6ae0d688935065133a4cbd398
raw:      true
height:   600px
zoom:     0.8
```
````

The example above will set the gist frame height to `600px` and use a zoom of `0.6`, or `60%`.
You may also make the frame bigger by using a value over `1`.
